

<h1>Chapter 31</h1>

<h2>Looking Forward as Your Social Skills Improve</h2>


<smallcaps>If you consistently apply</smallcaps> this book's ideas over time, your social situation should get to a good place. You'll be reasonably confident and comfortable in your own skin. You won't be completely fearless, but you'll be able to get through most social situations without feeling too shy or nervous. You'll be able carry on most conversations just fine, and you'll know that if one doesn't go well, it's not entirely your fault. You'll have a social life that works for you. What are some things you can expect as your social skills develop in a positive direction?

<h3>Pitfalls that come with being more socially savvy</h3>

As your social skills get better, there aren't any major pitfalls you have to worry about. It's almost all positives. One potential problem is that as you expand into fresh social territory, you may develop some bad habits. For example, if you previously nervously hung back in conversations but now enjoy taking the lead, you may discover you tend to interrupt people or make inappropriate jokes. You can catch and correct those mistakes like you can any others. 

<h3>Maintaining your progress</h3>

After you've improved your conversation and friend-making skills, the gains are here to stay. When you have the knowledge about how to handle a particular situation, you won't forget it. It's not like losing weight where there's always a risk that you'll put the pounds back on if you aren't diligent. If you don't use the skills for a while, they can get rusty, but it won't take long to shake that off. Practically speaking, conversation skills are used so often in day-to-day life that you'll be able to maintain them without trying too hard. Your courage to put yourself in uncomfortable social situations will atrophy more quickly if you don't keep stretching your comfort zone. Though again, it's easier to get that comfort level back than it is to earn it in the first place. 
<t>If you've always liked spending time alone, your new-and-improved social life might dry up after a while. This can happen if you become less intrinsically motivated to make new friends because you no longer have anything to prove to yourself. In the past you were pushed by the pain of wanting to get past your loneliness and social skills gaps. Now you may be stuck in a rut; you know you could go make more friends if you really wanted to… but there's no rush. So for now you're going to stay in for another weekend and watch some movies. If you catch yourself in this situation, it will be easier to get out of it a second time, once you re-establish your motivation to meet people. 
<t>Your social life may also level out due to a course correction. When you get the hang of socializing, you may go through a phase of going out all the time and making lots of friends. You're having fun using your new abilities, making up for lost time, and proving to yourself you can do this. In time, however, the novelty of having "bloomed" will wear off, and you'll settle back into your true, more low-key social preferences. 

<h3>Coping with challenging times</h3>

Though your more polished social skills won't tend to backslide much, there are a few situations in which socializing may be tougher. The first is if other aspects of your life get particularly stressful or difficult. All of that extra stress and discouragement might temporarily make your shyness and anxiety worse than normal. Second, your life circumstances may change down the road, and you may find yourself in a spot where it's tougher to make friends. You'll know the strategies you need to use, but the deck will still be stacked against you. For example, you may move to a small town after college and find it hard to meet people, as anyone would.
<t>If you hit a stressful patch, give yourself permission to temporarily function at a lower level. It may take time for your life to settle down, and it's not a knock against you if you feel a little more insecure or socially anxious than normal during that time. Think of it as if you injured your ankle and had to ease back on your physical activities for a few weeks​—​it doesn't mean you're crippled forever. To take the edge off any stress you many feel about socializing, use some additional stress-reducing techniques from Chapter 6. Dust off any anti-anxiety or confidence-boosting principles and techniques you may have applied in the past but haven't had to use as much lately (for example, you may need to go back to consciously questioning your counter-productive thoughts). 
<t>When you find yourself in a situation that's more practically challenging than what you're used to, be patient and don't put pressure on yourself to solve it right away. Take the time to try out different ways to adapt your existing skillset. Accept that you may never get the same results as you would under easier circumstances, and don't hold that against yourself (for example, acknowledging there will rarely be an opportunity to meet as many potential friends as easily as you did in college). 

<h3>What to work on next</h3>

It's not uncommon for socially inexperienced people to think they won't feel happy and "fixed" until they've become incredibly popular and charismatic. However, when they reach a functional, average level of social skills, they often realize that's all they need. If you want to try to take your people skills to a higher level, nothing's stopping you. As the beginning of the book said, being charismatic is more about doing all the basics a bit better than average than employing a set of special high-end techniques. Basic social skills also provide a foundation for more specialized subskills. If you haven't started working on them already, you could begin honing skills like flirting and dating, public speaking, sales, or leadership. 

<h3>"Why hasn't anyone noticed how different I am now?"</h3>

When you set out to improve your social skills, you may have wanted the validation of having your family or old high school classmates being amazed at how much you've changed. You have to accept you may never get that recognition. New people will tend to respond to the different you, but people you've known a while will often see you as you've always been. That's partially because if someone has a fixed idea of what you're like, they'll look for instances that confirm their old view of you and ignore whatever doesn't fit. Also, there may be a dynamic around certain people where your changes can't really show. When you're having dinner with your family, they won't see how much more confident you are when meeting strangers at parties.

<h3>Self-image</h3>

Our self-image tends to lag behind our current level of success. Even after you have better social skills, you'll feel like you're still "awkward," a "geek," or whatever label you used for yourself, for a while. You may even feel like an imposter and worry that at any moment everyone will snap to their senses and realize you're really just a dork who's faking it. You may find yourself shoehorning the fact that you used to be shyer into your conversations because you want to pre-emptively explain away any gaffes you may make or because you feel it's such a central part of your identity. These feelings may never fully go away, though they won't outwardly affect you. They may also fade over time, and you'll start to see yourself as a regular person and not define yourself by your old interpersonal problems. 
<t>At the moment, your social issues may seem like an overwhelming, all-encompassing storm that's ruining your life. If you work on fixing them, there will come a time where all they'll be is an off-handed, single-sentence summary of something from your past. You'll be talking to someone and mention, "Yeah, I was pretty shy in high school and college… Anyway, as I was saying…" 
