
----------------------------------------

Language Packs & Fallback Tips:

	- If you see text not being displayed, then try swapping the language packs around or adding on more fallbacks.
	- More fallbacks increase the download size for the prefab. 
    - The memory size of each language pack varies. Choose only what's necessary.
	- All fallbacks should be added to the Noto Sans and Noto Serif SDF files. These language packs handle fallbacks.
	- There are several dozen language packs pre-downloaded located in the Noto Sans Addons and Noto Serif Addons folders.
	- Noto Sans has a more modern style of font. Noto Serif has a more traditional style of font.

	- When modifying an SDF file, you may need to drag-and-drop the SDF files into the inspectors components again.
	- Modifications include changing the fallbacks, atlas sizes, multi-atlas options, etc.
	- Deleting an SDF file and recompiling a new one from the original font type file requires repopulation.
	- Requires setting Atlas Width, Atlas Height, Multi-Atlas Textures, Clear Dynamic Data, and Resetting Fallbacks again.

	- Do not rename font type files (.ttf, .otf) until the font SDF files (.asset) have been generated.
	- Generating an font SDF file from a renamed font type file will create a mismatch and lead to run-time errors.
	- Once the SDF file has been generated, it is safe to rename files (.ttf, .otf, .asset).
	- You can generate a dynamic SDF file from a font type automatically by pressing CTRL + SHIFT + F12.
	- Save 20 mb on world download size by removing all fallbacks from text using Noto Sans. 
    - When using compiler with books that have such texts, need to re-add them. 

----------------------------------------

Oustanding Tasks:

Loading 100% on bottom left.
People turn page, but goes backwards into table of contents and confused.
Sharper movement on cube lerp.
Showcase all extra options at start. People confused otherwise
Info doesn't appear on books.
Multiple screen savers.
Can't use navigation bar because canvas doesn't overlap it. 
Need to hide arrow cursor for desktop users pointing at screen.
Preserve text when going back to home screen.
Restore text when returning back to book (Keep bar shown?) 
Show progress as flag on book icon.
Preserve text for multiple books.
Showcase block titles when chaning navigation (Hide when done loading).
Scroll text when reading (Fast blip?)
Must have loading screen with instructions.
Options Menu
	Font Size
	Font Type
	Tablet Size
	Night Mode (Light had 219/217/214 Background, 0/0/0 Font | Dark had 24/26/27 Background, 177/175/172 Font)
	About 
Left hand support.
Networking & Multiple Player Interaction & Pickup & Player Rejoin Local Transform
Lazer pointer confusing, people expect something to happen on pickup. People dumb!!!
Preloaded book to display world author's stuff.
Clones are not grey enough when changing pages.
People try to scroll holding the grey'd out books.
Discord: Callie#0727
Respawn tablet button.
Options menu identical to YouTube (Big Button Doesn't Overlap).


	- Desktop Grid-Snap Rotation.
	- Style sheet on one of the quotes has texts really mushed together. Just format entire style sheet?
	- Arrow isn't visib

	- Toggle Grip (Lerped Screen Saver When Ungripped [Time, Loc, Title]).

	- Other hand logistics.
	- Tips Tab (Font Clarity, GUI, Tutorial).
	- Clear Unnecessary Text, Coloring, and Icons from Reading Screen.
	- Remove Grey Bar (Was 149/149/149 Color).

		// Polish screen saver.
	    // Account for differences in head.!!!
        // Disable tablet when not being held.
        // Check scale logistics again.
		// Remove return to home warning and preserve Andrea state.

MAKE ALIVIA MADRIGAL IN VRCHAT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
[Inspired: https://twitter.com/sora3_vrc/media]

Top tab is actually a button - tap to display navigation, return to menu, text format, break time, and stats. 
Pressing bottom loc changes visibility. 

Networking & Network Lock. 
WTF? PopulateStyleSheet in Compiler can utilize Andrea's code? Can skip parallel code logistics.
Changing font types too fast breaks the clones (unsure about size).
Scrolling too fast skips the clones (shows a blank screen loading in new block).
Scroll bar on main page (works in VR).
Some sort of break button.

Slightly reduce side lengths of grip bards.
Slight pixile fighting on edges of Andrea tablet screen (Z-axis slight shift.).
Changing to font size large on first page of block actually sent me back to previous block 2/3th of way through it. Left click goes back!
Something broken with images around Loc 785, Loc 1325, 2973 re-add paragraphs? in 7 Habits.
Loc 1960, Loc 2364, 2729, 3099, 3111, 4419, 5107, 5698 is strange on end clipping (wide text).
Loc 6276 needs to be broken up (huge word combo)
Quotes from questions asked on last chapters needs to be consistent in interviews.
Loc 6538 doesn't cut correctly?
Very last block doesn't load - errors out.
Options should be identical to YouTube mobile. 

	
Changing font size and type snaps to closest Loc.
	Functions ChangeFontSize and ChangeFontType.
	Slight Z fighting.




Discord community bottom left?
Andrea 3 bottom right?



Executes upon player releasing knob.

Block headers first. 

Get the percentage.
Get the array list of all blocks.
Count the numbers of elements.
Select the element closest to the percentage.
Get the Loc.
Read the Loc Height (LH) and Block Height (BH).
If Loc is between LH and BH, Step 2.
Else if Loc below LH, Increment down and check until between, Step 2.
Else if Loc above LH + BH, Increment up and check until between, Step 2.
Set block header name in Andrea Loc Navigation Slider.

Get current font type and font size.
Load it into Andrea.
Find floor of Loc by subtracting LH from Loc.
Set that as main page index.
Let clone grey out.
Load it.




----------------------------------------

General Home Page Structure:

Category 0 - Personal Development [10]:
	Atomic Habits
X	The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F_ck
X	7 Habits of Highly Effective People
X	How to Win Friends and Influence People
	Think And Grow Rich
X	The Power of Habit
	Grit
	Deep Work
	Mindset
X	Social Skills Guidebook

Category 1 - Classic Literature [10]:
	1984
	The Great Gatsby
	The Catcher In The Rye
	Crime and Punishment
	Catch 22
	The Adventures Of Tom
	To Kill A Mockingbird
	Pride and Prejudice
	Lolita
	The Grapes Of Wrath 

Category 2 - Epic Novels [10]:
	Harry Potter
	The Lord Of The Rings
	Dune
	Atlas Shrugged
	The Hunger Games
	Ender's Game
	Ready Player One
	The Da Vinci Code
	A Song Of Ice And Fire
	The Hitchhiker's Guide To The Galaxy 

Category 3 - VRChat Writers
	Your Book Here

	

Category 0 - Personal Development:
	7 Habits of Highly Effective People
	Mindset
	Atomic Habits
	Grit
	The Power of Habit
	Deep Work
	The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F_ck
	Start With Why

Category 1 - Communication Skills:
	How to Win Friends and Influence People
	The Charisma Myth
	How to Make People Like You
	Just Listen
	How to Talk to Anyone
	Influence
	Social Skills Guidebook
	Quiet
	**The Highly-Sensitive-Person**

Category 2 - Financial Independence:

Category 4 - Health & Wellness:
	Game Addiction (Hooked On Games)
	Porn Addiction (Your Brain On Porn)
	Food addiction (Fat Chance)
	Alcohol Addiction (This Naked Mind)
	Sleep Issues (Why We Sleep)
	Smoking Addiction (Allen Carr's Easy Way to Quit Smoking)
	Social Media Addiction (Ten Arguments for Deleting Social Media)
	Internet Addiction (Digital Minimalism)

Category 3 - Great Leadership:
	Elon Musk
	Jeff Bezos


----------------------------------------

Tutorial on Creating Book Button Images:
	Greyscale at 50.
	Resize all to 523x - 800x - Image.
	Expand Canvas to 549x - 826x - Canvas.
	Add 13 brush thickness, 25 corner Rounded Border. 	
	Remove Corners.
	Save Compressed PNG.
	Create sprite.
	Add Image to buttons.
	Buttons are all 348x - 529x - Button.

----------------------------------------

I use VRChat for 3 things. Sexual gratification. Social gratification. Contribution gratification. 

Depressive and Mania Cycle of Biopolar Disorder.
You need grit - Sticking to one thing.
You need deep work - No distractions.
You need values - Meaning to your project.

Start with Why:
When I was a rebellious child with no supervision or education, books were the only thing that kept me educated.
I would read the New York Times, I would read Goosebumps, I would read my history text book.
With mediums of communication becoming increasingly digital, having a book in your hands is becoming more scarce.
I would like to offer a book to someone in the virtual space, to extend them the same hand that guided me when I was growing up.
Maybe movies, TV shows, music, social media, and the plethora of content on the internet may drown up any interest in books.
I'd like to make it as easy and accessible as possible to those willing to give their time to reading.
And maybe I can help someone get through their childhood and grow up to be a happy, successful, well-minded adult. 


Andrea

Put books in correct order, just need to define where the starting index begins. Metadata is block 0. When a person opens a book, can skip past ToC and Acknowledgements.
Laser point and click to change pages. High fidelity and used already in VRChat systems. Button locations similar to Kindle.
Tap to turn. An interaction of tapping the corner area turns the page. Alternative to point and click.
5 point tablet scale. Slider with 5 bullet snapping points to adjust size. 2 additional scales can be smaller.
Grip bars on the side. Grip button once to snap to hand bone. Lerp rotation. No blue highlighting or buzz. Trigger to turn page. Other hand can tap to go back, tap to go forward, or point and click.
Interchange top center with title and chapter header.
Slight buzz when tapping or clicking.
&amp error in HTWF Loc1100.
Clicking on top center changes.
Book title.
Block title.
Invisible.
Clicking on bottom bar changes.
Loc #.
Page #.
Time Remaining.
Invisible.
GUI System.
Pointer hovering above buttons highlights them.
Thicker, bolder text types.
Transparency slider.
Brightness slider.
Scale slider.
Font size slider. 
Font type button.
GUI Buttons.
Home.
Compass.
Pinwheel.
YouTube Style.




Bahasa Indonesia, Català, ?eština, Deutsch, English, Español, Français, Italiano, Kurdi, Nederlands, Norsk, Polski, Português, Român?, Ti?ng Vi?t, Türkçe, ????????, ???????, ???????, ?????, ?????, ???????, ?????, ??????, ???, ????, ????, ???
