


<h2>ACKNOWLEDGMENTS</h2>



<smallcaps>This book began</smallcaps> as a big, messy thing and required more than just my own hands to chisel something comprehensible out of it.
<t>First and foremost, thank you to my brilliant and beautiful wife, Fernanda, who never hesitates to say no to me when I need to hear it most. Not only do you make me a better person, but your unconditional love and constant feedback during the writing process were indispensable.
<t>To my parents, for putting up with my shit all these years and continuing to love me anyway. In many ways, I don’t feel as though I fully became an adult until I understood many of the concepts in this book. In that sense, it’s been a joy to get to know you as an adult these past few years. And to my brother as well: I never doubt the existence of mutual love and respect between us, even if I sometimes get butt-hurt that you don’t text me back.
<t>To Philip Kemper and Drew Birnie​—​two big brains that conspire to make my brain appear much larger than it actually is. Your hard work and brilliance continue to floor me.
<t>To Michael Covell, for being my intellectual stress test, especially when it comes to understanding psychological research, and for always challenging me on my assumptions. To my editor, Luke Dempsey, for mercilessly tightening the screws on my writing, and for possibly having an even fouler mouth than I do. To my agent, Mollie Glick, for helping me define the vision for the book and pushing it much farther into the world than I ever expected to see it go. To Taylor Pearson, Dan Andrews, and Jodi Ettenburg, for their support during this process; you three kept me both accountable and sane, which are the only two things every writer needs.
<t>And finally, to the millions of people who, for whatever reason, decided to read a potty-mouthed asshole from Boston writing about life on his blog. The flood of emails I’ve received from those of you willing to open up the most intimate corners of your life to me, a complete stranger, both humbles me and inspires me. At this point in my life, I’ve spent thousands of hours reading and studying these subjects. But you all continue to be my true education. Thank you.
